# How to set custom names for grid filters and save/restore these names with a grid layout


<p>When an end-users applies any filter to a grid, this filter is shown in the <a href="https://documentation.devexpress.com/#WindowsForms/CustomDocument1424">Filter Panel</a>. When the <a href="https://documentation.devexpress.com/WindowsForms/DevExpressXtraGridViewsBaseColumnViewOptionsFilter_AllowMRUFilterListtopic.aspx">AllowMRUFilterList</a> property is set to <strong>true</strong>, recently used filters can be accessed via the View's <a href="https://documentation.devexpress.com/WindowsForms/CustomDocument1448.aspx">MRU Filter List</a>. It is a convenient way to access previous filters. Since filters can contain multiple filter conditions, it is not always comfortable to search for a necessary filter in the <strong>MRU Filter List</strong>. This example illustrates how to provide an end-user with the capability to set custom short names for filters. This way, a custom filter name will be shown in the <strong>Filter Panel</strong> as well as in the <strong>MRU Filter List</strong>.<br><br></p>
<p>To implement this feature, we have created a custom <strong>FilterNameProvider</strong> class. Create this class object and pass your <strong>GridView</strong> to its constructor. Once it is done, set the <strong>FilterNameProvider.AllowSettingFilterNames</strong> property to true to enable this functionality.<br><br></p>
<p>Now, when you right-click a filter text in the <strong>Filter Panel</strong>, a context menu will be shown. Click the <strong>Save Filter As</strong> item to invoke <a href="https://documentation.devexpress.com/#WindowsForms/clsDevExpressXtraBarsDocking2010CustomizationFlyoutDialogtopic">FlyoutDialog</a>. In this <strong>FlyoutDialog</strong>, you can enter a custom filter name for the current filter shown in the <strong>Filter Panel</strong>.<br><br></p>
<p>So, your end-user can now assign custom short names for filters. However, this information will be lost once you save and restore a grid layout. To save custom filter names with the grid layout, we use the <strong>XmlXtraSerializer.SerializeObjects</strong> method. We pass the current <strong>GridView</strong> together with a <strong>FilterNameProvider</strong> object to this method. <strong>FilterNameProvider</strong> has the <strong>GridFilters </strong>property of the<strong> List<GridFitlerItem></strong> type, which is intended to be serialized. That is why this property is marked with the <strong>XtraSerializableProperty</strong> attribute. Note that properties of the <strong>GridFitlerItem</strong> class are also marked with this attribute.<br><br></p>
<p>To restore these filters, we use the <strong>XmlXtraSerializer.DeserializeObjects</strong> method. Since new <strong>GridFitlerItem</strong> objects will not be created automatically when this method is called, it is necessary to declare a special method at the <strong>FilterNameProvider</strong> class to allow you to create such objects manually. This method should have a name according to this pattern: “<strong>XtraCreate<PropertyName>Item</strong>”. That is why we call this method as <strong>XtraCreateGridFiltersItem</strong>. </p>

<br/>


